My T3 Stack Course
Hey subscribers!

Those of you who have been watching my channel will know that one of the recent projects I've worked on was a full-stack SaaS that generated icons using artificial intelligence. I really enjoyed working on this side project and it uses many useful technologies that I feel others should learn if trying to become a web developer.

As I mentioned in my channel, I've been working on a short course to help teach others how to build out a similar application that uses the same technologies that I used on my production-ready application.

Well, great news! I've finally managed to finish my course that you're welcome to go purchase if learning the same technologies I used sounds interesting to you.

Here is the link to the course: https://1017897100294.gumroad.com/l/jipjfm
.  Be sure to use the following code of 9LX2QSM to get a 30% discount.

What's Will You Learn?

As mentioned, the following technologies are used in this course.

            T3 Stack
            Typescript
            Prisma
            tRPC
            Tailwind CSS
            Next Auth
            AWS S3
            AWS Amplify
            Dall-e API
            Stripe
            and probably more...

The course contains6 hours of content which is split up between 32 videos. I provide high level diagrams in the course to really help explain what we will build and how we will build it out. It has a 30 day return policy, so feel free to contact me if you are not happy with the course.

         Who is this course made for?

         As mentioned on the course page, this course isn't for complete beginners. I expect you have some knowledge of using javascript and maybe understand how to create react components. Having some exposure to tailwind css might help as well. The way I teach this course is very similar to how I make my youtube videos, so please go watch some of my free T3 stack videos on my youtube channel to get an idea of the teaching style.

         Have a good day and happy coding!